# Smart-Water-Meter
IoT and Cloud Computing based Smart Water Metering System 
This work was presented in Bengalathon 2019 and after several rounds of screening, this work was selected for presentation in the Grand Finale.
The work was also published and presented in International Conference on Power Electronics and and IoT Applications in Renewable Energy and Its Control - PARC 2020. The abstract of the work is as follows.
Abstract-This paper focuses on the developmental and implementation methodology of smart water meter based on Internet of Things (IoT) and Cloud computing equipped with machine learning algorithms, to differentiate between normal and excessive water usage at industrial, domestic and all other sectors having an abundance of water usage, both for Indian and worldwide context. Recognizing that intelligent metering of water has the potential to alter customer engagement of water usage in urban and rural water supplies, this paper fosters for sustainable water management, a need of the present. With shrinking reserves of clean water resources worldwide, it is becoming cumbersome to cater for this resource to masses in the coming years on a consistent basis. Using our smart water meter, water resources can be managed efficiently and an optimum use could save water for the future generations. Sensors will provide for real time monitoring of hydraulic data, automated control and alarming from Cloud platform in case of events such as water leakages, excessive usage, etc. Analysis of the same will help in taking meaningful actions. Thus we do propose for a smart water metering technology that can be utilized by Indian citizens, and worldwide, to curb wastage of water. With an ease of monitoring and visualization of the data through the Cloud platform combined with machine learning based tools to detect excess water consumption, the server-less architecture we propose can be easily adopted and implemented in a large scale.
